[doc]: add info over how to keep the bundle smaller (#5563)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: website/content/en/docs/faqs/_index.md

## What is the bundle limit size? Was this amount increased?

Bundles have a size limitation because their manifests are used to create a configMap, and the Kubernetes API does not 
allow configMaps larger than `~1MB`. Beginning with [OLM](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager) version `v0.19.0` 
and [OPM](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry) `1.17.5`, 
these values are now compressed accommodating larger bundles. ([More info](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry/pull/685)).

The change to allow bigger bundles from [OLM](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager) version `v0.19.0` only impacts the full bundle size amount. 
Any single manifest within the bundle such as the CRD will still make the bundle uninstallable if it exceeds the default file size limit on clusters (`~1MB`).

## The size of my Operator bundle is too big. What can I do?

If your bundle is too large, there are a few things you can try:

>   * Reducing the number of [CRD versions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definition-versioning/#specify-multiple-versions) supported in your Operator by deprecating and then removing older API versions. It is a good idea to have a clear plan for deprecation and removal of old CRDs versions when a new ones get added, see [Kubernetes API change practices](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api_changes.md). Also, refer to the [Kubernetes API conventions](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md).

Author: ```suggestion
  * Reducing the number of [CRD versions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definition-versioning/#specify-multiple-versions) supported in your Operator by deprecating and then removing older API versions. It is a good idea to have a clear plan for deprecation and removal of old CRDs versions when new ones get added, see [Kubernetes API change practices](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api_changes.md). Also, refer to the [Kubernetes API conventions][k8s-api-convention].
```

## What is the bundle limit size? Was this amount increased?

Bundles have a size limitation because their manifests are used to create a configMap, and the Kubernetes API does not 

> allow configMaps larger than `~1MB`. However, from [OLM](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager) version `v0.19.0` 
> and [OPM](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry) `1.17.5`, 
> these values were increased because they are compressed now. ([More info](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry/pull/685)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow configMaps larger than `~1MB`. Beginning with [OLM](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager) version `v0.19.0` 
and [OPM](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry) `1.17.5`, 
these values are now compressed accommodating larger bundles. ([More info](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry/pull/685)).
```

The change to allow bigger bundles from [OLM](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager) version `v0.19.0` only impacts the full bundle size amount. 
Any single manifest within the bundle such as the CRD will still make the bundle uninstallable if it exceeds the default file size limit on clusters (`~1MB`).

> ### The size of my Operator bundle is too big. What can I do?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The size of my Operator bundle is too big. What can I do?
```

I know you're trying to tie this into the previous question but I think for consistency we should make all the questions the same level.

> What about check how many [versions of the CRDs][k8s-crd-versions] are supported in your Operator? 
> Could you deprecate and reduce the number of supported APIs versions ? (_In this case, the recommendation can be to have a 
> clear plan for deprecation and removal of old CRDs versions when a new one gets added, 
> see [Kubernetes API change practices][k8s-api-change]. Also, you might want to give a look at 
> [Kubernetes API conventions][k8s-api-convention]._).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your bundle is too large, there are a few things you could try.

* Consider reducing the number of [CRD versions][k8s-crd-versions] supported in your Operator?
* Deprecate or reduce the number of supported API versions? It is a good idea to have a clear
plan for deprecation and removal of old CRDs versions when a new ones get added, 
see [Kubernetes API change practices][k8s-api-change]. Also, refer to the 
[Kubernetes API conventions][k8s-api-convention].
* Reduce the verbosity of your API documentation. (_We do not recommend eliminating documenting the APIs_)
```

> Also, you might need to find some alternative options to achieve the same goal in another way such as; are you documenting the API(CRD)? 
> Could you be more concise and less verbose? (_But surely we don't want to say to not document the APIs_)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## What is the bundle limit size? Was this amount increased?

Bundles have a size limitation because their manifests are used to create a configMap, and the Kubernetes API does not 
allow configMaps larger than `~1MB`. Beginning with [OLM](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager) version `v0.19.0` 
and [OPM](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry) `1.17.5`, 
these values are now compressed accommodating larger bundles. ([More info](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry/pull/685)).

The change to allow bigger bundles from [OLM](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager) version `v0.19.0` only impacts the full bundle size amount. 
Any single manifest within the bundle such as the CRD will still make the bundle uninstallable if it exceeds the default file size limit on clusters (`~1MB`).

## The size of my Operator bundle is too big. What can I do?

If your bundle is too large, there are a few things you could try.

> * Consider reducing the number of [CRD versions][k8s-crd-versions] supported in your Operator?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Consider reducing the number of [CRD versions][k8s-crd-versions] supported in your Operator
```

> * Deprecate or reduce the number of supported API versions? It is a good idea to have a clear

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Deprecate or reduce the number of supported API versions. It is a good idea to have a clear
```

> * Deprecate or reduce the number of supported API versions? It is a good idea to have a clear

Reviewer 2: what's the difference between "Consider reducing the number of CRD versions" and "Deprecate or reduce the number of supported API versions" ?

Reviewer: @bparees that was my edit. The original text was as follows:

Reviewer 2: I see, so by "CRD versions" you meant "distinct CRDs" and not "versions of a given CRD/type"

In that case, "Consider reducing the number of CRD types" might be clearer.  Though as i said on the earlier edits, i'm pretty reluctant to tell anyone to adapt their preferred API to address OLM size constraints.  That is definitely the tail wagging the dog.

Reviewer: @bparees I think the first one suggests reduce the the operator's API versions and the second bullet suggests having a deprecation plan that will help you do the first one. It was original a single paragraph but I broke it up into bullets.

Reviewer 2: the current context+formatting imply to me that the two bullets are distinct techniques/suggestions for reducing size, not that the second one is details on how to accomplish the first one.

how about (yes it goes back to one big paragraph, but i've tried to clean it up a bit):

```
If your bundle is too large, there are a few things you can try:

  * Reducing the number of [CRD versions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definition-versioning/#specify-multiple-versions) supported in your Operator by deprecating and then removing older API versions. It is a good idea to have a clear plan for deprecation and removal of old CRDs versions when a new ones get added, see [Kubernetes API change practices](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api_changes.md). Also, refer to the [Kubernetes API conventions](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md).
  * Reduce the verbosity of your API documentation. (We do not recommend eliminating documenting the APIs)
```

Author: Done as. suggested @bparees @jmrodri

> If your bundle is too large, there are a few things you could try.
> 
> * Consider reducing the number of [CRD versions][k8s-crd-versions] supported in your Operator
> * Deprecate or reduce the number of supported API versions. It is a good idea to have a clear
> plan for deprecation and removal of old CRDs versions when a new ones get added, 
> see [Kubernetes API change practices][k8s-api-change]. Also, refer to the 
> [Kubernetes API conventions][k8s-api-convention].
> * Reduce the verbosity of your API documentation. (_We do not recommend eliminating documenting the APIs_)

Author: ```suggestion
If your bundle is too large, there are a few things you can try:

  * Reducing the number of [CRD versions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definition-versioning/#specify-multiple-versions) supported in your Operator by deprecating and then removing older API versions. It is a good idea to have a clear plan for deprecation and removal of old CRDs versions when a new ones get added, see [Kubernetes API change practices](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api_changes.md). Also, refer to the [Kubernetes API conventions](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md).
  * Reduce the verbosity of your API documentation. (We do not recommend eliminating documenting the APIs)
  ```

> [kb-apis]: https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/gvks.html

Author: ```suggestion
```

The change to allow bigger bundles from [OLM](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager) version `v0.19.0` only impacts the full bundle size amount. 
Any single manifest within the bundle such as the CRD will still make the bundle uninstallable if it exceeds the default file size limit on clusters (`~1MB`).

### The size of my Operator bundle is too big. How can I keep the CRDs smaller?

> You can design Operator solutions by providing many APIs(CRDs). In this way, you might want to review the design of your Operator solution to ensure that it is not hurting concepts such as; encapsulation, the single responsibility principle, and cohesion. Also, you might need to find some alternative options to achieve the same goal. To better understand the APIs, see [Groups and Versions and Kinds oh my!][kb-apis].

Author: ```suggestion
We can design Operator solutions that have many APIs(CRDs). In this way, you might want to review the design of your Operator solution to ensure that it is not hurting concepts such as; encapsulation, the single responsibility principle, and cohesion. Also, you might need to find some alternative options to achieve the same goal in another way. To better understand the APIs, see [Groups and Versions and Kinds oh my!][kb-apis].
```

> We can design Operator solutions that have many APIs(CRDs). In this way, you might want to review the design of your Operator solution to ensure that it is not hurting concepts such as; encapsulation, the single responsibility principle, and cohesion. Also, you might need to find some alternative options to achieve the same goal in another way. To better understand the APIs, see [Groups and Versions and Kinds oh my!][kb-apis].

Reviewer 2: this paragraph doesn't seem directly tied to keeping CRDs smaller, or even limiting the number of CRDs.  It seems like it could be dropped entirely.

Author: One of the reasons is to keep all specs in the same CRD instead of designing a solution that will have many APIs
So, here we are trying to make an overview that can be a reason but sometimes might be required to find some alternative solutions as well.

Reviewer 2: I think we should never be encouraging a team to compromise their API design to fit in into an arbitrary OLM CSV size limit constraint.

Author: The idea here is clarified that a lack in the design might be a root cause for having CRDs too big.

Author: `but I think we can remove that.

> Following are some general guidelines to help you out:

Author: ```suggestion
Following are some general guidelines that we hope help you out:
```

> - Do all definitions must be in a single API(CRD/CR), or could it make sense to be split in a better API design?

Reviewer 2: how does splitting into more CRDs help reduce the size of the bundle? If anything i'd expect turning 1 CRD into 2 CRDs would make the bundle bigger (overhead per CRD)

Author: it is over `How can I keep the CRDs smaller?`

Reviewer 2: how does keeping the CRDs smaller help with the overall CSV size constraint?

Reviewer 2: to be clear, the 1mb limit applies to any single yaml in the bundle, but generally the only one that ever risks exceeding 1mb is the CSV, right?

have we ever seen a single CRD yaml exceed 1mb?

Author: I just checked cases where the total size was bigger than 1MB so far. Not the files.

> - Are you documenting the API(CRD)? Could you be more concise and less verbose? (_But surely we don't want to say not to document the APIs_)

Author: ```suggestion
- Are you documenting the API(CRD)? Could you be more concise and less verbose? (_But surely we don't want to say to not document the APIs_)
```

> - Are you documenting the API(CRD)? Could you be more concise and less verbose? (_But surely we don't want to say not to document the specs definitions_)

Author: ```suggestion
- Are you documenting the API(CRD)? Could you be more concise and less verbose? (_But surely we don't want to say not to document the APIs_)
```

> - How many [versions of the CRDs][k8s-crd-versions] are supported in your Operator? Could you deprecate and reduce the quantity of supported APIs? (_In this case, the recommendation can be to have a clear plan for deprecation and removal of old CRDs versions when a new one gets added, see  [Kubernetes API change practices][k8s-api-change]_).

Author: ```suggestion
- How many [versions of the CRDs][k8s-crd-versions] are supported in your Operator? Could you deprecate and reduce the number of supported APIs versions?  (_In this case, the recommendation can be to have a clear plan for deprecation and removal of old CRDs versions when a new one gets added, see  [Kubernetes API change practices][k8s-api-change]_).
```
